if I know how many people you have on
your email list I probably know your
annual income a wise entrepreneur is
less impressed with your social media
followers and much more impressed with
the number of subscribers you have to
your email
list let's face it today if you want to
make money if you want a predictable way
to reach your followers to sell to your
followers you need an email list very
few people are successful selling
directly from social media the reason
why a lot of people say I use social
media to sell it they really mean is I
use social media to grow my email list
and I'm selling on my email list we sell
on our email list I myself say I've sold
millions and millions of dollars using
social media but to be more precise I've
sold millions and millions of dollars by
using my social media to get the right
followers the right people the people
I'm trying to reach my avatar onto my
email list and that's where I can build
a deeper relationship with them every
single freaking day I hear from somebody
I mean I got a message today from
someone who's like I'm so sorry to reach
out to you on the weekends but I just
lost my account on Facebook and I don't
know what to do and this G is someone
who's been in business for more than 15
years she has a huge Facebook following
she said I'm afraid to even check
Instagram every single day people lose
their accounts they lose their accounts
because they get hacked they lose their
accounts because they are in violation
of community rules and they haven't done
any violations like this happens all the
freaking time and when it happens then
you realize holy guacamole I wish I had
an email list cuz I don't have any way
of getting in touch with my customers
that's number one number two is the
email is where you convert people so I
mean I guess I'm preaching to the choir
otherwise you wouldn't be watching this
video you already know you need to build
your email list I learned that lesson in
2011 and I grew my email list at that
time very much the same way I grew my
email list this week twak I love that so
many of the same principles still apply
with a slight tweak on them to make them
work for this year okay so back in 2011
what I did is a
30-day challenge where I suggested that
people give me their email address and
then I sent them one email a day for 30
days helping them to accomplish a goal
we called it 30-day push goal Challenge
and the thing I I learned from that is
that people now don't have 30 days worth
of an attention span but I will say that
promotion which I started I believe in
November and I promoted it for several
months through the beginning of January
and in 2011 I put 100,000 people on my
email list insane that was the reason
why my book became a New York Times
bestseller for sure because I didn't
there weren't I mean I had a podcast but
like no actually I didn't even have a
podcast in 2011 like very few people
were doing a podcast in 2011 I didn't do
any media appearances I didn't do any
speaking engagements my book became a
New York Times bestseller because I had
an email list and I want to give a shout
out to Brendan bashard because I really
learned that technique from him and I
was just like okay this is what you need
to do and I'm going to implement I'm
going to grow my email list of course I
took a lot of different lectures and
workshops and seminars on how to promote
a book how to get a book to be like you
know a bestseller and all every expert
was like you need an email list and I
was like okay if the experts are saying
this then therefore it is true and today
I here to tell you it's still true today
you need an email list and all of your
efforts on social media are fantastic
but if you're not driving people if
you're not capturing the people who you
want to reach capturing their emails
you're leaving so much money on the
table so much money in this episode I'm
also going to share with you the email
subscriber service that we use known as
a CRM I'm also going to share with you
the exact technique that we used on
social media to capture those emails and
I'm going to share with you the very
real statistics I'm going to break it
all down because the numbers are
exciting but when you I'm I'm going to
tell you like what we did organically
for free also what we did in terms of
paid advertising to grow our email list
and this was all over the course of
about 2 and a half 3 weeks but it's
really a little bit longer than that
okay so let's get right to it shall we
before I get into the specifics of how
we grew our email list in the last month
I want to share with you a really
important metric and that is 80% of your
efforts on social media should revolve
in some indirect way or sometimes very
direct way in growing your email list
what I mean by that is every single
caption that you write the it's all
truncated on Instagram on Tik Tok like
people don't see the full caption they
only really see like the first 10 words
which is for most people not even a
complete sentence ironically I went to
my friend Omar's page when I give him
advice he's a friend of mine he
implements why I freaking love those of
you who Implement if you implement and
you're watching this on YouTube comment
the phrase I am an implementer so I know
who the action takers are so I told Omar
I'm like dude I'm looking at your
content right now and your your first
five to 10 words need to tell people
what to comment if you don't tell people
what to comment they don't comment
anything and you should tell them a word
to comment that sends them a message
directly via DM so that there's a
connection between the two of you on
social anyways I'm just looking at
Omar's like this last real that he just
posted where he had let's see how many
people liked it this is crazy this is
freaking crazy he had
1,88 people like it and he had 1,8 and7
people leave a freaking comment what
what like do you understand how huge
that engagement is the engagement is one
thing but more specifically what Omar
did in this video is exactly what I'm
going to teach you to do today and it's
exactly what we did to grow our email
list in last month okay so let's start
back at the beginning you want to think
about like okay what is it that I can
give people in in other words a fremium
or an optin some kind of gift in
exchange for them giving me their email
list or something of value that I can
give my followers if they Comm in a
specific words so in this example that I
just shared with you regarding Omar he
said comment the word pod if you want to
sign up for my workshop on how I grew my
podcast okay so anyone who commented the
word pod pod on Omar's real which was
over almost 2,000 people they got a
direct message that sent them a link to
sign up for his
Workshop how freaking brilliant is that
so rather than saying like comment the
word pod and go watch my video where
like you still have no way of tracking
people he was basically saying like if
you want this information all all you
have to do is give me your email address
you see so much of what we do on
Instagram we're providing value but
we're letting people walk
away and we have no way of following up
we have no way of tracking them we have
no way of knowing if they actually did
we have no way of getting in contact
with them in the future with that very
simple trigger word giving people the
word to respond he was able to reach
1,800 people and potentially not all but
he's going to put a lot of those people
on his email list now you're like wait a
second I how will I have time to respond
to 1,800 people you you won't if you
reach that level you want to automate
the process and you can do so with a
thirdparty tool called many chat now
we've done episodes regarding many chat
many chat is it is like the
entrepreneurs two tools keep which is
our CRM and Min chat those two things
combined are like like I I don't know
what I would do without them in fact
last week there was like all there were
all these rumors that many chat was
causing some accounts to be disabled
they were just rumors spoiler alert I
can tell you that that's not true um it
was just like this rumor that started
circulating around amongst all the
entrepreneurs who use many chat where I
like oh my gosh what will I do because
in the past before there was many chat I
would have to hire a virtual assistant
to go through and manually send 4,000 or
whatever 2,000 people how many people
commented to send them that response
which was a copy and paste and when
you're doing that you're always running
the risk when you're sending like 4,000
or 2,000 you're always running the risk
of Instagram going wait a second this is
a copy and paste of the exact same
message is this
spam which is why you want to use a
thirdparty tool that is recognized and
accepted and endorsed by Facebook IE
meta and that is one of those is many
chat so I'll put a link at the top of
our show description to check out many
chat I'm sure we have a discount code
rock is like like an ambassador for many
chat like we freaking love many chat we
freaking love men chat I I don't know an
entrepreneur who doesn't use it I mean
it's the greatest thing ever anyway so
many chat what it does is you can set up
a word right so you tell people to
comment whatever the word is and then it
automates the reply to all those people
in the words that you wrote obviously
and then they just click on it it just
it's all automated it's mind-blowing you
guys this is it's freaking mind blowing
it's the easiest thing ever so that's
what Omar did and now he's he's filled
up his Workshop by creating a real
number one number two he's blown up his
engagement on social by getting so many
comments and that's exactly what we did
this week for or in the last couple of
weeks I guess overall in the last month
to grow our own email list so let me
break that down for you first what we
did it's based around a challenge and I
I love the idea of a challenge or a
blueprint or a workshop or something
that people they're getting something
from you but if your ultimate goal isn't
just to get them on your email list it's
to convert them to be customers you want
to give them something that allows them
to have get a quick win right like they
learned something from it they're like
wow that was valuable number one number
two they get a taste a little bit of an
experience of what it's like to work
with you how it is you coach how it is
you deliver like can you blow their
minds with something something that's
free cuz people are
like if I get all this and all I did was
give you an email address I can't
imagine what the experiences like if I
invest with you and then on top of that
if you can give them real results from
what you shared with them it's a win-win
now often times when you're doing a
challenge or a workshop or a webinar
most people now are under the they they
understand that like at the end of it
there's going to be an opportunity where
you're going to tell people like hey if
you want to go go deeper if you want to
go to the next level I have this thing
that's available to you like here's all
the here's all the free stuff and then
at the end you're like and for those of
you who are still here and you want to
learn more you want to work with me
here's what that looks like and that's
just common practice it's something
that's important for you to do because
it's that same Gary vaynerchuk jab jab
jab left hook is that what the analogy
was I like don't even remember but it
was basically like you know here's free
free free free okay do you want to do
you want to sign up with me that's just
how business works and so you're giving
people tons and tons and tons of free
content any small percentage of them are
going to become customers the idea of a
premium or an opt-in is that you're
giving your potential customers
something of Great Value but more
importantly giving them an experience so
they understand what it's like to work
with you and what's possible in our
current example what we gave people was
a 14-day energy reset I decided not to
use the word challenge I like the idea
of of a challenge but I was specifically
speaking to women who are per menopausal
and menopausal and talking to them about
diet fitness exercise energy and if
there's one thing that they feel it is
tired they're exhausted they're sick of
feeling like they've failed so I wanted
to stay away from the word challenge so
we called it a blueprint we called it a
reset and I try to stay away from the
word challenge although I I did
sometimes mix it in there but I I wanted
people to know like hey for the next two
weeks I'm going to guide you through how
to revamp your energy and how to do it
naturally and we're and I explained to
them it's going to involve intermittent
fasting it's going to involve some
really simple lifestyle stuff like
really really simple and walking we're
going to walk every single day so if you
want to do that comment the word walk
with me comment the word wwm which
stands for walk with me or comment the
word reset comment the word energy I
used all these different keywords and
that's one of the tips I want to share
with you is don't use the same word
every single time use a different
trigger word if you're using men chat or
if you're doing it manually either way
use a different trigger word so that it
doesn't feel like the same regurgitated
content it feels fresh to them so we
designed a 14-day energy reset for my
lifer and then I just created five or so
reals using a different trigger word for
each time and we had over
22,000 new email signups
just from organic social now let me
break down our stats okay because I want
to be as accurate for you as possible
now listen when it comes to the team at
Team Johnson I'm the creative I'm not
the numbers gal so I consulted with our
CFO that's my handsome husband Brett
Johnson he's a CFO and Michelle our VP
and asked like what specifically were
our numbers and here's what I can tell
you we acquired almost 40,000 emails in
2 weeks time we spent a blended of
organic and paid with the price of 30
cents per lead now that's crazy in total
we spent almost
$111,000 on advertising on Instagram
which generated us
7,800 of those leads though that was
paid all of the rest was organic how
crazy is that that's really crazy now in
addition to the free organic social
media that we did we also promoted to
our other lists so I have lists for
people who are interested in business
like people listening to build your
tribe I have list are for people who are
interested in the podcast I have email
lists that are just for people who are
interested in health and fitness and all
of these we keep separated and segmented
which is so important the way you
segment your list and the way you create
your funnels is everything now we use
for our CRM a company or a service
called keep keap I will put a link to
that Below in our show description as
well but here's what I want to say about
keep it's got so many bells and whistles
it is so Rob robust it's got so many
tools that the average person like
myself I have no clue so if you are a
solo preneur if you're the kind of
person who's like not great at Tech and
you're not in a head space or in a place
financially to hire team to help you it
ain't for you I'm just going to be
straight up but if you're like oh I get
it I will hire somebody who understands
how to set everything up on the back end
then keep is will blow your mind keep
also offers if I'm not mistaken they
offer almost like a like a coner service
like someone who's certified like a
certified keep whatever you want to call
it engineer who can set all that up for
you but if you're so I just want to tell
you if you are a solopreneur who is not
of the mindset where you need to hire
people to do things for you and you want
to try to figure this out yourself
you're going to have a big headache like
that's that's the whole mindset we have
to get you over that okay so I just want
you know who like who it's for and who
it's not for like if if you're the kind
of person is like I just need something
super simple that I can figure out maybe
MailChimp is the way to go you know what
I'm saying or Constant Contact but but
if you really want like incredibly
robust amazing funnels keep will blow
your mind and that's what we use because
we started signing people up for this
challenge approximately three weeks
before it started so how do you keep
people
interested and ready and excited and
opening up your emails all the way up
until the day not just until the day
that the challenge starts or the reset
starts but all the way through the end
of it so we're talking in total three
four five how do you keep people excited
for five weeks well that means you've
got to create the right kind of funnels
and keep is a a wonderful tool to help
you do that and that's what we did so we
created what we call keep War funnels so
that once people joined they were
getting drips of content things that
kept them engaged things that served
them things that got them excited about
what was coming I did this by creating
just six reels I will link to each one
of them so you can see exactly what I
did a lot of them were just voiceovers I
just recorded a voiceover and then I
took little clips from my um phone from
a camera roll and put those not me I had
an editor take my voice and I I gave him
the audio and then he would put together
some of them I did myself I use video
leap if you want to know what app I use
to edit my videos or inshot both of
those are great and so we just did these
very simple videos that were exciting
and doable and you're like oh okay hey I
got it these are the kinds of things
that other people are going to want to
share these are kind of things are
motivational um a lot of excitement so
it's possible to do this even with
something that might seem kind of boring
right like so I'm I'm talking to women
about changing their bodies that's kind
of exciting and so you might be thinking
how do I get people excited about the
thing that I want to teach them well
again I want to share Omar's video
example because here he is teaching
people how he grew his podcast which you
might think would be a a boring subject
or like how do you get people hyped up
about about that well check out this
example I'll show it to you now yo IG
fam I launched a podcast right about 6
months ago and I want to show you these
stats these are actually the last 90
days here's YouTube's back end and I
have almost 800,000 views uh over
172,000 hours of watchtime which by the
way amounts to about 19 over 19 years
that people have spent with me I've
grown over 20,000 subscribers and I've
hit almost $116,000 in revenue and even
the audio is going crazy I'm getting uh
in November was 4,000 December 7,000 and
we're about to get over 10,000 downloads
in the month of January and it's been
unreal and here's what's crazy I've been
documenting my journey with my podcast
and I'm going to be revealing how I've
been able to do this on a call this
Thursday I'm going to be breaking down
how I use AI the gear I use the workflow
and to make sure that you know this is a
big deal I'm going to be doing a huge
giveaway on this call so you want to be
on there to sign up for this Workshop
comment the word pod and I'll send you
the link so we can see you on this call
this is this Thursday I'm breaking down
everything I hope to see you there if
you're watching the build your tribe
YouTube channel hi I I keep seeing you
watching so many of these videos but you
forgot to subscribe I can tell I can see
the statistics so if you if you just
didn't realize like oh I should probably
subscri yeah yeah if you didn't realize
that you should subscribe today because
then the videos will automatically show
up for you and I've got some incredible
follow-ups to help you grow your email
list and build your brand so make sure
you subscribe right now and then drop a
little comment below and say shelene
you're right I wasn't subscribed I'm so
embarrassed okay just comment that below
this video so I know we've taken care of
that but you can now see I'm going to
share with you just one of the examples
of the videos that we did where again
this is just my voice and we play some
video footage over it walk walk walk
walk walk we are going to walk walk walk
walk walk and we're also going to bring
our stress level down we're going to get
way better sleep we're going to stop
snack snacking we're probably going to
do a little bit of intermittent fasting
but we're mainly going to get our energy
back this is a two-e reset challenge are
you going to walk with me are you going
to do this with me it's free so if you
are just comment wwm walk with me wwm
walk with me Below in the comments and I
will send you an invite walk walk walk
walk walk that video got
10,500 likes and almost
7500 comments and then on top of that I
did five more reels over the course of
two weeks but in terms of using our
social media to grow the organic leads
we didn't just rely on my account one of
the things that we teach in the insta
Club Hub now I don't know if you guys
know this but Brock and I we we love
teaching Instagram and one of the things
we love to teach is how to create an
account that is faceless it's it's not
your face it's just a themed type of
content so you're sharing other people's
content which they love because then
they're getting seen by this huge
account so we have this account that's
called home workouts for you
and we've got almost I don't know over
700,000 followers and they're all geared
towards Fitness and women and women who
are over 40 and so we used these
accounts as well as the phase it up
account as well as like all of my other
feature accounts and that's why you want
to create a feature account because your
own personal account there's only so
much you can do with it and then people
are like okay enough already right but
because we had all these other feature
accounts it just poured New Leads onto
our email list now if you want help
growing a feature account if you need
help in general growing your Instagram
because let's face it what I'm sharing
with you today to grow your list to the
size that we did required that we had a
social media following so if you need
help with that all you have to do is
click the link below where you can try a
$7 trial of insta clubhub that's the
Instagram coaching program that both
myself and Brock would love to have you
be a part of it's really fun and will
help you figure out how to do that if
you're like I I don't want to do social
how do I grow my email list without
doing social that feels like a lot more
work your options are you've got to do
you've got to do paid
advertising and paid advertising is
again one of those things that I don't
think you should try to figure it out
yourself I think you need to you in my
personal opinion I think you need to use
a really good qualified well vetted
someone who's highly recommended uh
agency I would love to bring an expert
on to talk to you about how to find the
best consultant when it comes to paid
advertising if that's something you'd
like or if you're like I don't want to
know about the Consultants I want to
know like what do I need to know in
order to run my own ads because again we
were getting leads for 30 cents that's
huge so if that's something you'd like
please let me know let me know in the
comments wherever it is you listen to
build your tribe and let us know yeah I
need to know no more about paid
advertising because I ain't got time to
grow my social and make sure you're
subscribe because otherwise you're not
going to hear that follow-up episode
unless you are and I don't care whether
you're listening to a podcast on Audible
or an audio platform or if you're
watching on YouTube you have to make
sure you're subscribed you're going to
miss that content as always it is my
goal to be brief to be bright to make it
fun and then be done we're
done
he bye love
[Music]
you
oh